---
ID: 3226
post_title: 'Notice of withdrawal of the &#8216;built-in&#8217; Time Series historian component of IBM Watson IoT Platform'
author: afoster
post_date: 2016-07-27 15:25:11
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/07/27/notice-of-withdrawal-of-the-built-in-historian-component-of-ibm-watson-iot-platform/
published: true
---
As part of our evolving strategy to enhance the data storage capabilities of Watson IoT Platform we hereby give 30 days notice of our intent to withdraw the built-in Time Series historian feature from the service.  Experience with our users has shown that you are looking for more flexibility when it comes to data storage.  The built-in historian has very limited capability and most of you are choosing not to use it and instead integrating your own storage.   So this feature has been superseded by a more flexible  storage approach.  We have taken a number of steps to make the transition to alternative services as straightforward as possible for those users who need to retain access to existing data:<br /><ul><li>Earlier this year <span>we introduced a last value cache that makes it easy to access the most recent events from a device.</span></li><li>More recently we have introduced a new capability to connect Watson IoT Platform to the IBM Cloudant NoSQL DB service on Bluemix.   IBM Cloudant is a powerful operational data store optimized to handle concurrent reads and writes, and provide high availability and data durability.  This will be our default choice of historian going forward.</li></ul><ul><li>We have published a <a href="https://github.com/ibm-watson-iot/historian-export">sample application</a> on GitHub that can be used to extract all events from our built-in historian and forward them to an IBM Cloudant instance in a manner compatible with the new Connector.</li></ul><div class="socmaildefaultfont" dir="ltr"><div dir="ltr"> If you have any further questions regarding this change or you need further assistance understanding how to move your data to an alternative location please contact IBM support through your usual channels or feel free to reach out to me directly.<br /><br /><span>Further information</span><br /><a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/06/14/watson-iot-platform-last-event-cache-feature-now-generally-available/">Previous announcement of Last Value Cache<br /></a><a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/07/25/enhanced-data-storage-capabilities-for-ibm-watson-iot-platform/">Enhanced data storage capabilities for IBM Watson IoT Platform</a><br /><a href="https://new-console.ng.bluemix.net/docs/services/IoT/cloudant_connector.html">IBM Watson IoT Platform documentation</a><br /><a href="https://docs.cloudant.com/document.html">Cloudant API documentation</a></div></div>