---
ID: 3118
post_title: IoT Needs More Cowbell
author: Alex Melamed
post_date: 2016-07-13 01:50:37
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/07/13/iot-needs-more-cowbell/
published: true
---
<p><strong><em>" Guess what! I gotta a fever, and the only prescription is MORE cowbell ! " </em></strong>- Christopher Walken, SNL April 2000 </p><p>Once you have seen this <a href="https://vimeo.com/55624839" target="_blank"><span>Christopher Walken's </span>SNL skit</a>, its hard not to laugh anytime you comes across a cowbell. To my delight I came across one recently in an excellent post b<span>y </span><span>Colin McCabe. I was browsing</span> through the archive of blogs on developerWorks when I stumbled on a post that <span>describes his</span><span> <a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/bluemix/2015/10/06/winning-iot-hackathon-with-bluemix-and-cowbell/" target="_blank">IoT cowbell alarm clock</a> that won second place in an Intel hackathon in 2015.</span></p>The first thought in my mind was "we need more cowbell in IoT !"<br /><br />Outside of their use in agriculture, cowbells are funny, silly and playful instruments. It's just hard to take them seriously yet they entertain and delight. A lot of the big business around IoT focuses on the serious productivity gains, and transformation, yet there is just so much room to be funny and entertaining with connected devices. <p>Here are 2 short excerpts from the blog  (<a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/bluemix/2015/10/06/winning-iot-hackathon-with-bluemix-and-cowbell/" target="_blank">Winning an IoT Hackathon with IBM Bluemix and a Cowbell</a>)</p><blockquote><p><strong>The vision: </strong><br />I wanted to create a simple sensor detection that set off a special user experience, or business rule. By getting the Edison connected to Bluemix, I knew we’d have a lot of notification options (Twilio API, Twitter etc.). I wanted to create a 3D printed something + notifier = alarm clock. Seemed simple enough. Additionally, I wanted to attempt what other DIYers haven’t, make a clock without any display of time. </p><p><strong>How Node-RED on Bluemix Helped ( along with the Watson IoT Platform ): </strong><br />Being a platform as a service and a deployment medium, we used Bluemix’s Internet of Things foundation ( now called IoT Platform) and Node-RED editor to connect a device to the cloud. Just key in the ID of your device and click on connect. And voila! Your device is now sending information to the cloud. Using Node-RED for fetching this data and giving the app logic, as nothing but drag and drop! No fear of the black screen(<em>shrugs</em>). This editor is designed to minimize any kind of coding. It has components which are connected by connectors (a squiggly line with 2 ends). And each component has a little editor, where you can write a couple of lines of code based on your requirement.</p><p>&nbsp;</p></blockquote><blockquote></blockquote><strong>The final product</strong><br /><br /><p>[embed]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ecNgzESgLpM[/embed]</p><br />I am sure you have come across great examples of silly and entertaining uses of IoT and I encourage you to share in the comments below. And better yet, share a <a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/recipes/" target="_blank">Recipe </a>and teach us how to build it ourselves. <br /><br /><br />