---
ID: 2625
post_title: 'Support for Gateways now available in Internet of Things Foundation [Beta]'
author: bkufluk
post_date: 2016-01-20 10:42:05
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/01/20/support-for-gateways-now-available-in-internet-of-things-foundation-beta/
published: true
---
<p>I’m pleased to announce that Internet of Things Foundation has implemented new support for gateways giving a whole new dimension to your IoT architecture. Gateways provide extra functionality and control over connected devices and sensors. </p><ul><li><strong>Single Connection -</strong> With a single sign-in and connection, a gateway can send events and receive commands on behalf of its registered devices using their device ids. </li><li><strong>Device Management</strong> - It can forward device management commands such as ‘reboot’ and ‘firmware update’ to attached devices, and to itself.</li><li><strong>Automatic Registration [coming soon] -</strong> It can automatically register new devices that connect to the gateway with the Internet of Things Foundation without the hassle of additional subscriptions.</li></ul><h3>What is a gateway?</h3><p>Simply put, a gateway is an intermediary between one or more Things and the internet.</p><p>IoT solutions using gateways can connect and manage a range of Things as a group, while still maintaining the same granular level of individual control. Things connected through a gateway are uniquely identified in the platform, even if the Thing is a simple sensor without an IP address. This way all Things can temporarily disconnect or freely roam through the available gateways without affecting the integrity of your IoT solution.</p><p>Depending on your architecture, a gateway may be passive like a hub; or active like a router. A passive gateway is transparent to your architecture, it just allows sensor readings to flow up, and commands to flow down to the device. An active gateway gets involved in transferring the data – for example when the device is not IP enabled like a bluetooth, zigbee or LPWAN device, a gateway can identify the device and help it transmit data back and from the internet.</p><p>Whether you are an IoT solution architect, a gateway producer, firmware writer, or producer of any device which provides data on behalf of other devices, then you’ll want to take advantage of these new features.  Even if you’re already using a gateway today, you will find it simpler to add new devices and get started working with their data in Internet of Things Foundation!<br /><br />This gateway functionality is in Beta, which means we're continuing to improve and develop the capability.  Look out for further updates including the automatic registration feature coming soon! </p><h3>To find out more, check out the documentation here:</h3><ul><li>Documentation:  <a href="https://docs.internetofthings.ibmcloud.com/gateways/mqtt.html">https://docs.internetofthings.ibmcloud.com/gateways/mqtt.html</a></li></ul><h3>Look out for my Webinar on gateways on the 28th Jan:</h3><ul><li>Register here: <a href="http://www.ibm.com/internet-of-things/iot-news.html#tab1">http://www.ibm.com/internet-of-things/iot-news.html#tab1</a></li></ul>