---
ID: 3366
post_title: 'IBM teams up with AT&#038;T for Government Solutions IoT Hackathon'
author: Walicki
post_date: 2016-08-29 13:24:23
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/08/29/ibm-teams-up-with-att-for-government-solutions-iot-hackathon/
published: true
---
IBM has partnered with AT&amp;T, Intel and Cisco to sponsor a Public Sector Solutions IoT Hackathon in Washington DC on September 16-17, 2016.  <a target="_blank" href="http://attdc16.eventbrite.com/?aff=mktg">Register</a> to join us before the event sells out.<br /><br /><b>Have an app idea to improve government services?  </b>Come to this special Internet of Things (IoT) and Government focused hackathon, produced by the AT&amp;T Developer Program. Form a team and join us in developing new applications to drive government efficiency and effectiveness leveraging the Internet of<br />Things (IoT) in the areas of:<div style="padding-left: 30px;">•     Smart City</div><div style="padding-left: 30px;">•     Public Safety</div><div>Showcase your creative thinking and application development talent. Develop your idea on commercially available software and leverage sensor technologies from leading commercial companies.</div><div> </div><div>The Federal Government is an important market with many opportunities for developers. By hacking new mobile applications, developers can mature their ideas, get involved in an exciting community, and create something to further the greater social good.</div><div> </div><div>IBM, AT&amp;T, Intel and Cisco will have technical mentors onsite to assist you in building faster, smarter, and with new tools. We will also have loaner hardware on-site for you to use in your solutions. We’ll supply quick presentations and code samples that help to bootstrap your hacking, food to keep you going, and caffeine to keep you awake.<div> </div>We will be awarding prizes for the best overall solution as well for the best solutions by category.<br /><ul><li><b>Best Overall App: $5,000 </b>(in cash to be split between team members or donated to charity)</li><li><b>Best Smart City App: $2500</b> (in cash to be split between team members or donated to charity)</li><li><b>Best Public Safety App: $2500</b> (in cash to be split between team members or donated to charity)</li></ul><div><br /><strong>Location</strong><br /><div style="padding-left: 30px;">Howard University<br />Armour J. Blackburn University Center<br />East Ballroom<br />2397 Sixth Street, NW<br />Washington, DC 20059</div><div><strong><br />Dates/Time</strong></div><div style="padding-left: 30px;">September 16, 6:00 pm – September 17, 9:00 pm, EDT</div><div><br /><strong>Event Info</strong></div><div>Cost: Free!</div><div>Register: <a href="http://attdc16.eventbrite.com/?aff=mktg"><span style="color: #0563c1;" color="#0563C1"><u>http://attdc16.eventbrite.com/?aff=mktg</u></span></a></div></div></div>