---
ID: 3040
post_title: Walicki with Watson
author: Walicki
post_date: 2016-05-31 02:11:03
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/05/31/walicki-with-watson/
published: true
---
<h3>This changes Everything....Again!</h3>
<p dir="ltr">"Walicki with Watson" seems to be an appropriate way to introduce myself.  As a member of the Watson IoT Developer Advocate team, I am eager to share my experiences with the powerful Watson IoT Cognitive APIs and Bluemix.  I'm passionate about helping developers build custom IoT and embedded Linux solutions for their industrial and educational use cases.</p><div class="lotusPostContent bidiAware "><p dir="ltr">Before I jump straight to "This changes Everything...Again" I should probably rewind the tape a bit and give you some background about my personal experiences during important inflection points of the computing era.<br /><br />This changes Everything... 1982<br />My first Apple IIe - and my friend's IBM PCjr - started me down a path with computing in High School.  The "which OS is better" debates that my buddy and I had back then have raged for the past 30+ years.  What I learned from all those operating systems - DOS, MacOS, OS/2, Win95, WinNT, Linux, AIX, WinXP, Win7, OS X, embedded, mobile etc is that there is an appropriate platform, OS and form factor for every use case.  Pick the one that does the job best for the task at hand and quickly move beyond the fanboy arguments.  I've learned to love them all.<br /><br />This changes Everything... 1984<br />GUI - The <a target="_blank" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macintosh">original Macintosh</a> and its new graphical user experience changed everything in 1984.  I was still in High School and landed a job at the local Apple reseller teaching introductory classes to new owners of expensive Macintosh systems.  To my delight, the reseller gave me a Macintosh to develop the courseware.  I quickly became an expert in MacOS, MacPaint  and MacWrite.  I've loved to teach about computing ever since.<br /><br />This changes Everything... 1990<br />Open Source - After graduating from Lehigh University with a BSEE, I went to work at IBM T.J. Watson Research Center and became an OS/2 programmer.  My first introduction to Open Source Software was to port the BSD licensed <a target="_blank" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Network_Computing_Remote_Procedure_Call">SunRPC</a> to OS/2.  My work was incorporated into the OS/2 TCP/IP implementation.  Open Source has been the single most important thread through my 26 year IBM career.<br /><br />This changes Everything... 1994<br />Browsers - The first time I saw <a target="_blank" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosaic_%28web_browser%29">Mosaic</a> running on an AIX RS/6000, I knew that the Internet was moving from connecting computers to connecting people.  We had been heavy users of FTP, Gopher, Usenet, sendmail but the introduction of a Web Browser opened the Internet to everyone.  I went on, later in my career, to lead the effort to switch the entirety of IBM from IE to the open source Firefox browser. <a href="http://www.sutor.com/c/2010/07/ibm-moving-to-firefox-as-default-browser/" target="_blank">Saying it out loud: IBM is moving to Firefox as its default browser</a></p><p dir="ltr">This changes Everything... 1999<br />Linux - In 1999, I was a founding member of the Linux Technology Leadership Council which established IBM Linux strategy and led to the establishment of the Linux Technology Center.  For the past 17 years I've been the architect for the world's largest enterprise Linux client desktop and desktop virtualization deployment ever conceived.  Open Technologies, Open Standards, Open Source, and <a href="http://www-03.ibm.com/ibm/history/ibm100/us/en/icons/linux/" target="_blank">Linux</a> have been a core IBM strategy.  I was at LinuxWorld 2001 when Sam Palmisano announced IBM's Billion dollar investment.  Unequivocally, Linux has won.  An entire generation of developers have contributed to making Linux great.  Today, Linux runs the Internet and is the foundation of the Cloud, arguably Linux saved the Mainframe, powers the world's largest supercomputers, runs on the majority of smartphones in the world and Linux will power billions of IoT devices.  I could not imagine a greater opportunity to help Linux become even more pervasive!<br /><br />This changes Everything... 2001<br />Smartphones -  I had been a gadget guy for a decade, with a bat belt featuring a pager, StarTac mobile phone, Palm Pilot.  Forget the pocket protector of the prior generations, nerdy data center managers were easy to spot.  In 2001, I bought a <a target="_blank" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kyocera_6035">Kyocera 6035</a> - one of the first smartphones.  The Kyocera smartphone consolidated all those devices into one.  Blackberry reigned and Apple went on to improve the user experience with the iPhone.  Eventually mobile application development for iOS and Android became easy.<br /><br />This changes Everything... 2005<br />Enterprise scale distributed systems management. I left IBM Research to join IBM I/T where I became the IBM I/T Client Platform Architect, responsible for IBM's internal strategy for Windows, Linux, Mac, Mobile, BYOD.   I set strategy for the internal client platforms and managed 500,000+ IBMers workstations.  Security, fighting malware, global patch management kept me busy for a decade. I established IBM's Bring Your Own Device strategy and have deep expertise with Mobile Devices, Desktop Virtualization and Open Standards.  As the IBM I/T Workplace of the Future Strategist, I led the transformation as IBM embraced a heterogeneous workstation environment and adopted Open Standards based solutions.<br /><br />This changes Everything... 2016<br />IoT - As IBM reinvents itself around Watson Cognitive technologies, I'm drawn to the challenge.  The <a target="_blank" href="http://www.ibm.com/cognitive/">Cognitive Era</a> will change everything... Again.   I've joined the Watson IoT Developer Ecosystem team to create recipes, teach developer workshops around the country, share my understanding of managing large scale distributed endpoints and apply my open source expertise toward improving the Watson IoT Platform.  Follow me on the IBM IoT Blog as "Walicki with Watson" guides developers through the next Cognitive and IoT inflection point of the computing era.</p></div><p><span id="widget-container-col2"><span id="widget-container-tabsWidget1">Reach me on Twitter <a target="_blank" href="https://twitter.com/johnwalicki">@johnwalicki</a> and <a target="_blank" href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jowalicki">LinkedIn</a></span></span></p>