---
ID: 3385
post_title: >
  What have we done for you lately?
  Enhancements to our Watson IoT Platform
author: NeilPostlethwaite
post_date: 2016-09-06 00:00:39
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/09/06/platform-updates-summer2016/
published: true
---
<p><em></em><span>Let’s cut to the chase.  You are using the platform, or considering it, and you want the low down on our functionality.  Why is it better than it was one year ago…or even one month ago?  And don’t make me dig for information!  We hear you!  Now let’s break a few of this year’s highlights to date down by area….analytics, connectivity, security and risk management, plus information management.  I’ll keep doing these going forward, so you get a regular batch of news.    </span></p><hr /><h2><strong>Analytics</strong></h2><p><strong>Real-Time insights are now integrated into the Watson IoT Platform service itself, </strong>as of just a few weeks back.  This is great news from a usability perspective – we now give you one integrated dashboard, with access to RTI function without you needing to deploy and manage separate services.  </p><p><strong>Cognitive analytics </strong>are available for developers to use with our IoT Platform via the Watson APIs. By using these APIs, you can build advanced cognitive applications that: Interact with humans naturally by using both text and voice augmented with IoT; Understand images and recognise scenes coming from IoT devices; Learn from IoT sensor inputs to find meaningful patterns; Correlate unstructured data from external data sources, such as weather or Twitter with your IoT data. The Watson APIs that integrate with the IoT Platform include Natural Language Processing (NLP), Machine Learning, Video and Image Analytics, and Textual Analytics. What are you going to create with these fantastic resources? <strong><br /><br />Edge analytics are now live too</strong>, allowing you to configure your analytics in the cloud, then push them out to ‘edge-ready’ gateway devices such as the Cisco 829 router or UCS servers that sit out in the network, close to the source of device and sensor data. With Watson IoT Platform Edge Analytics, organizations can analyze data where it makes the most sense, filter out low value data at the Edge, only forwarding high value data to the cloud. Saves costs and keeps decision making local.  Why not try this <a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/08/23/edge-analytics-recipe/">new edge analytics recipe</a> and experience edge in action.  To learn more, read <a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/08/03/introducing-edge-analytics/">Greg's  blog</a>.</p><p><strong>Integrate Watson IoT Platform and IBM Predictive Analytics as a service</strong> to give you machine learning algorithms that detect anomalous behaviour of things. In a typical Industrial deployment, Anomaly detection is the most sought after algorithm, used to forecast trends and detect data that violates patterns. These insights can then be leveraged by the IBM Watson IoT Platform to trigger rules, alerts and visualizations - remember the Real-Time Insights I just mentioned ? Engage Machine Learning for detecting anomalous behaviors of your things. Use our <a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/recipes/tutorials/engage-machine-learning-for-detecting-anomalous-behaviors-of-things/">recipe</a>, and check out <a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/author/svchitiv/"></a> for more on machine learning and cognitive analytics.</p><hr /><h2><strong>Connectivity</strong></h2><p><strong>Automatic Registration of Devices.</strong> Support for gateways that we brought in early on this year includes automatic registration of devices and gives a whole new dimension to your IoT architecture. Gateways provide extra functionality and control over connected devices and sensors and let you connect devices from non-IP networks.    Learn more about our gateway support by reading <a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/04/04/watson-iot-platform-gateway-capabilities-now-generally-available/">Bernard’s blog</a>, watching the <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Q7039Vz1Gg">video</a>, or downloading the <a href="https://docs.internetofthings.ibmcloud.com/gateways/mqtt.html">documentation</a>.</p><p><strong>Send more device data with an increased limit of 128KB per message.</strong> The Watson IoT Platform now supports larger message sizes.  If you are sending detailed event information from a device, saving several values up and sending them in at once, or maybe even sending images you’ll find it all much easier with our new limits. See the <a href="https://docs.internetofthings.ibmcloud.com/devices/mqtt.html">documentation</a> for more details.</p><p><strong>Custom Device Management.</strong> In addition to the four device management actions supported by the Watson IoT Platform - Download Firmware, Update Firmware, Reboot and Factory Reset, you can now extend the platform to support additional custom actions. See the <a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/06/14/create-new-custom-device-management-actions-beta/">custom device management actions in the IBM Watson IoT Platform</a> article.  For example, if your gateway or device supports additional actions that let you change and update packages or plugins, enable and disable features (or anything else!), you can tell the platform what those features are so that they can be enabled as additional actions.  If you would like to try it out, for this function we have a <a href="https://device-mgmt-demo.mybluemix.net/">developer simulation tool</a> that you can use connect to your IoT organisation and simulate a device.  Once you’ve connected, you can use the simulator to make the device managed, and select which custom actions the device supports.  In the tool you can see the communications between the device and the platform.  Very cool!</p><p><strong>New Platform integrations</strong>.  Throughout the year we’ve provided you integrations to other platforms - especially to other Connectivity platforms from our partners such as Jasper, Orange &amp; AT&amp;T – making it simple and straightforward to drill down to SIM level connectivity from our Watson IoT dashboard.</p><hr /><h2><strong>Security &amp; Risk Management</strong></h2><p><strong>IoT and Blockchain.</strong> Heard of Blockchain ?  I hope so by now – it’s one of this year’s big tech trends … just behind IoT of course, but I would say that wouldn’t I?!  The good news is that our IBM Watson IoT Platform now has the ability to <a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/07/20/ibm-watson-iot-adds-device-data-to-blockchain-transactions/">add Internet of Things (IoT) data, to blockchain transactions</a>. This gives great possibilities for doing things like automating business processes amongst your partners without setting up expensive centralized IT infrastructures, or even worse – doing it on paper. This gives you the potential to improve business network efficiency, reduce costs, increase trust and open up new markets. A <a href="http://www-01.ibm.com/common/ssi/cgi-bin/ssialias?htmlfid=WWS12352USEN">solution brief</a> provides an overview of the capabilities and use cases. The new features within the Watson IoT Platform are available through two new Lab Services Offerings, designed to help you rapidly identify key use cases, in an agile fashion, to reduce risk and maximise return on investment.</p><p><strong>IBM Watson IoT Platform Local</strong> allows deployment of the platform in your own data center or one of your choosing. If you want a co-located IoT solution, maybe next to your plant floor or you want to have complete control over your own hardware infrastructure, consider a <a href="http://www-01.ibm.com/common/ssi/ShowDoc.wss?docURL=/common/ssi/rep_ca/0/897/ENUS216-160/index.html&lang=en&request_locale=en#abstrx">Local</a> instance.</p><p>And of course don’t forget that we have “<strong><a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/01/22/announcing-dedicated/">Dedicated</a></strong>” too – this means you get to choose which of our IBM Cloud datacenters your IoT Platform is deployed in.  Very cool and very useful if you have geo-privacy needs within your solution, or want an environmental totally isolated and just for you in the Cloud.</p><hr /><h2><strong>Information Management &amp; Storage</strong></h2><p><strong>Weather APIs<strong>  allow access to current weather observations </strong>and weather forecasts.</strong> Here are some <a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/recipes/tutorials/?s=weather">recipes that use Weather APIs</a> to get you going.  And don’t forget – we integrated weather data with your IoT devices directly in the dashboard, so you can see what the weather conditions are at their geo-location without lifting a finger! (well maybe just one click!)<strong><br /><br />Last Event Cache </strong>is where we’ll start when it comes to the storage options we’ve been busy enhancing. This function supports one of the most common use cases, helping you answer the question “What was the last value I received from my IoT device?”. Our last event cache API returns the last recorded value of an event-id for a specific device, or the last recorded value for each event-id reported by a specific device.   Entries in the cache are overwritten by newer data as it arrives and the oldest value in the cache is 12 months old, after which values are discarded.<br /><br /><strong>Enhanced Data Storage options</strong> for IBM Watson IoT Platform. The next component in our storage strategy is now available in the form of a <a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/07/25/enhanced-data-storage-capabilities-for-ibm-watson-iot-platform/">managed connector from Watson IoT Platform to IBM Cloudant NoSQL </a>.  Connecting a Cloudant database service instance to Watson IoT Platform gives you a powerful and robust means to store and access your historical device data ready for further processing and analytics.  All the power of the Cloudant APIs and UI are available.  Device data can be stored in daily, weekly, or monthly databases depending on your selected “bucket” interval.  Learn more about how to connect and configure in our <a href="https://new-console.ng.bluemix.net/docs/services/IoT/cloudant_connector.html">IBM Watson IoT Platform doc</a>, or the <a href="https://docs.cloudant.com/document.html">Cloudant API doc</a>.</p><p><strong>Cards and Boards </strong>is a great new feature that makes a difference right across the Watson IoT Platform!<strong> </strong> These allow you to visualize, organize, track, and share data from connected devices or other data sources in the IoT platform. You can create new boards, add cards, and choose card types that provide the best visualization style for the data that is sent by your IoT devices.</p><p>Add multiple cards to a board, organize the cards into sections using separators, create multiple boards, make them private, share your boards with others in your organization,… the list goes on.  The world really is your oyster here and cards and boards provides you and your organization with a simple intuitive way to visualize sensor data and to monitor the state of your IoT system.</p><p>Well – I don’t know about you, but I’m excited!  And this was just a few of our highlights, there is lots more to come in 2016 and I can’t wait to tell you about it all.  So … look out for the next one of these roundups a bit later in the year.  In the meantime – keep a close eye on our <a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/blog/">Watson IoT Platform blog</a> and of course follow us on twitter at @IBMIoT for more great Watson IoT Platform news! </p><p>&nbsp;</p>