---
ID: 3240
post_title: >
  Cards and Boards feature now Generally
  Available
author: MatsGöthe
post_date: 2016-08-11 06:50:48
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/iotplatform/2016/08/11/cards-and-boards-feature-now-generally-available/
published: true
---
I’m pleased to announce that the Cards and Boards feature in IBM Watson IoT Platform is now generally available.<br />The experimental Cards feature, which was made available earlier this year, has been extended with a new Boards feature and is now production ready and supported.<br /><h2>What is Cards and Boards?</h2>Cards and Boards is a new feature in the IBM Watson IoT Platform to visualize, organize, track, and share data from connected devices or other sources in the IoT platform. This feature enables you to create new boards, add cards, and choose card types that provide the best visualization style for the data that is sent by your IoT devices. You can add multiple cards to a board and organize the cards into sections using titled separators. You can create multiple boards, make them private, or share your boards with others in your organization.<br /><br />Cards and Boards provides you and your organization with a simple intuitive way to visualize sensor data and to monitor the state of your IoT system.<br /><h2>What’s new?</h2><strong>Boards</strong><br />You can now view your boards on an All Boards page and add additional boards.<br /><br /><strong>Favorites and Landing page boards</strong><br />You can select a default board to open as your landing page when you select Boards in the navigator bar. You can also select your favorite boards and have them directly available in the navigator bar. <br /><br /><strong>Card Types</strong><br />You can select a presentation style that matches your data visualization preferences, from real-time chars, bar charts, donuts cards, gauge charts, or generic text cards. You can also set the card size.<br /><br /><strong>Usage Card Types</strong><br />You can also create card types that displays statistics on your usage, like the number of device types and storage usage.<br /><h2>How it works</h2>To create your first board, click on Boards in the navigation bar, and then click the ‘Create New Board’ button. Enter a name and a description for your new board. On the new board, click the ‘Add New Card’ button. The Create Card guide will take you through the steps to choose a card type, select a device, select one of the events received from the selected device, and identify the data to visualize.  <br /><br />To learn more about using boards and cards, visit the <a href="https://console.ng.bluemix.net/docs/services/IoT/data_visualization.html">Visualizing real-time data by using boards and cards</a> in the Bluemix documentation. <br /><h2>What’s next</h2>We are continuing to develop more card types for other capabilities in the Watson IoT Platform.<br />We’re interested in your <a href="https://nextstage.torolab.ibm.com/answers/smartspace/internet-of-things/">feedback</a> – please let us know what you think!